# Junit request

## Resourse:
- Jmeter Junit request [manual guide](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/junitsampler_tutorial.html)
- Baeldung Junit [guide](https://www.baeldung.com/junit)

## introduction:
The current implementation supports standard JUnit convention and extensions, like oneTimeSetUp and oneTimeTearDown. Other features can be added on request. The sampler works like the JavaSampler with some differences.
- Rather than use JMeter's test interface, it scans the jar files for classes extending JUnit's TestCase class. This means any class or subclass.
- JUnit test jar files are copied to jmeter/lib/junit instead of jmeter/lib
- JUnit sampler does not use name/value pairs for configuration. The sampler assumes setUp and tearDown will configure the test correctly.
>  - when you add a JUnit sampler to your test plan, you don’t need to specify any additional configuration for it. You just need to tell it which test class and which test method you want to run. JMeter will automatically run the setUp and tearDown methods before and after the test method, and assume that they will set up and clean up everything correctly.

> - Note: setUp and tearDown methods must be declared public, so that JMeter can use it.
- The sampler measures the elapsed time only for the test method and does not include setUp and tearDown.
- Each time the test method is called, JMeter will pass the result to the listeners.
- Support for oneTimeSetUp and oneTimeTearDown is done as a method. Since JMeter is multi-threaded, we cannot call oneTimeSetUp/oneTimeTearDown the same way maven does it.
> - JUnit has two special methods called setUp and tearDown that are run before and after each test method. However, sometimes you may want to run some code only once before or after all the test methods in a test class. For example, you may want to create a database connection only once and reuse it for all the tests, instead of creating and closing it for each test.
> - JMeter supports these annotations as well, but it treats them as normal test methods. This means that you can select them from the Test Method drop-down list in the JUnit sampler. However, since JMeter runs tests in multiple threads, it cannot guarantee that these methods will be run only once per test class. They may be run multiple times by different threads. Therefore, you should be careful when using them and make sure they are thread-safe.
> - Also, when you select oneTimeSetUp or oneTimeTearDown as the test method, you should check the option “Do not call setUp and tearDown”. This is because these methods are not meant to be run with setUp and tearDown, as they are already doing the setup and cleanup for all the tests.
- The sampler reports unexpected exceptions as errors.
>  - if your test method throws an exception that is not expected by the test, such as a NullPointerException or an IOException, the JUnit sampler will mark the test as an error and report it to the listeners. An error is different from a failure, which is when your test method fails an assertion. An assertion is a statement that checks if a condition is true or false, such as assertEquals or assertTrue. A failure means that your test did not pass the assertion, but it did not throw an exception either. An error means that your test could not complete normally because of an exception.

> - For example, suppose you have a test method that checks if a file exists in a certain directory. You use the assertTrue method to assert that the file exists. If the file does not exist, your test will fail the assertion and report a failure. However, if the directory does not exist or you don’t have permission to access it, your test will throw an IOException and report an error.
## 
