# Pre-processor

## introducing:
- A `pre-processor` is a component that executes some action before making a sampler request. It can be used to provide any setup actions required for the test sample, such as generating some unique test data or amending the parent sampler dynamically.


## Default Pre-processor in Jemter 5.5:
According to the official documentation, Jmeter 5.5 has the following default pre-processors:

- [`User Parameters`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#User_Parameters): Allows you to specify parameters that will be passed to the request. You can define different values for different users or threads. 
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to assign a unique username and password for each user in a login request.
- [`Sample Timeout`](): Allows you to define a timeout for a sampler request. Any sample taking longer than the specified time will be marked as failed.
- [`JSR223 PreProcessor`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#JSR223_PreProcessor): Allows you to execute any script before the sampler request using JSR223 script languages such as Groovy, Java, BeanShell, etc. You can use this pre-processor to perform any custom logic or operation that is not supported by other pre-processors. 
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to generate a random string and use it as a token parameter in the request.
- [`JDBC PreProcessor`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#JDBC_PreProcessor): Allows you to execute any SQL query before the sampler request using a JDBC connection. You can use this pre-processor to fetch data from a database and store it in variables. 
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to query the product ID and quantity from a database and use them in an order request.
- [`BeanShell PreProcessor`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#BeanShell_PreProcessor): Allows you to write custom code in BeanShell language to perform some action before the sampler request.
- [`HTML Link Parser`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#preprocessors): Allows you to parse all the links from the response of the previous request and store them in variables. You can use this pre-processor to simulate a user clicking on any link on a web page randomly.
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to navigate through different pages of a website by selecting any link on each page.
- [`HTTP URL Re-writing Modifier`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#preprocessors): Allows you to modify the URL of the request before it is sent. You can use this pre-processor to add or remove parameters, encode or decode values, or append session IDs. 
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to add a timestamp parameter to the URL to avoid caching issues.
- [`RegEx User Parameters`](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/component_reference.html#RegEx_User_Parameters ): Allows you to extract data from the response using regular expressions. You can use this pre-processor to store the extracted data in variables and use them in subsequent requests. 
> For example, you can use this pre-processor to extract a confirmation code from the response of a booking request and use it in a verification request.

You can learn more about each pre-processor by reading its description and examples in the [documentation](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/index.html)

## Bean shell examples:

- One example of using BeanShell PreProcessor is to generate a random string for a request that requires a “token” parameter. This parameter can be any random string. Instead of using a hardcoded string for all requests, which would make the request less realistic than a real-life scenario since tokens are not the same for all users and workflows, you can use a BeanShell PreProcessor to generate a random string and use it in a sampler.

Here is an example of how to generate a random string using BeanShell PreProcessor:

```java
import java.util.Random;
chars = "1234567890abcdefghiklmnopqrstuvwxyz-";
int string_length = 36;
randomstring = "";
for (int i = 0; i < string_length; i++) {
    Random randomGenerator = new Random();
    int randomInt = randomGenerator.nextInt(chars.length());
    randomstring += chars.substring(randomInt, randomInt + 1);
}
print(randomstring);
vars.put("RANDOM_STRING", randomstring);
```
- Another example of using BeanShell PreProcessor to change JMeter variables on the fly. Assume you have a user-defined variable called “continue” with the value of “true” somewhere in a While loop. You can set it to “false” with this simple command :
```java
vars.put("continue", "false");
```
- Another example is converting a JMeter variable to a JMeter property. Given a variable “some_variable”, you must cast a JMeter Property with the same name to use it (such as in another thread group). Here is an example of how to do this :
```java
props.put("some_variable", vars.get("some_variable"));
```
## Jmeter variable using in Bean Shell Pre-processor?
- `log`: can be used to print something to jmeter.log file. 
```java 
log.info ("This line has been written by Beanshell PreProcessor");
```
- `ctx`: stands for JMeterContext, provides access to JMeter Context API. 
```java
int threadNum = ctx.getThreadNum (); // get current thread number
```
- `props`: stands for JMeter Properties. They are “global” variables that can be accessed by any thread. 
```java
String prop = props.get ("prop"); // get $ {prop} property value and store it to prop string
```
- `prev`: shorthand to previous SampleResult. You can get/set start time, end time, execution time, latency, URL, response code, response message, etc. 
```java
String code = prev.getResponseCode (); String message = prev.getResponseMessage ();
```
- sampler: provides access to the current sampler. You can get/set sampler name, domain, port, path, method, etc.  
```java
String samplerName = sampler.getName (); // get sampler name
``` 

## JMeter Context API and `ctx` variables
JMeter context API is a set of classes and methods that provide access to various information and features of JMeter. For example, you can use JMeter context API to:

- Get or set the current sampler, thread group, thread number, variables, properties, etc.
- Get the number of active or total threads, test start time, test logical action, etc.
- Perform computations and send values along with the request
- Access JMeter variables in a programmatic manner

The ctx variable is a way to access JMeter context in a script. JMeter context is an object that represents the current state of JMeter, including the engine, the samplers, the results, and the variables. You can use ctx to get or set various information and features of JMeter. For example:

- To get the current sampler: 
```java
Sampler sampler = ctx.getCurrentSampler ();
```
- To get the previous result: 
```java
SampleResult prev = ctx.getPreviousResult ();
```
- To get the thread number: 
```java
int threadNum = ctx.getThreadNum ();
```
- To get the thread group: 
```java
AbstractThreadGroup threadGroup = ctx.getThreadGroup ();
```
- To get the variables: 
```java
JMeterVariables vars = ctx.getVariables ();
```
- To get the properties:
```java
Properties props = ctx.getProperties ();
```
You can find more details and examples of JMeter context API in the official documentation [1](https://jmeter.apache.org/api/org/apache/jmeter/threads/JMeterContext.html), [2](https://jmeter.apache.org/api/org/apache/jmeter/threads/JMeterContextService.html)

## Pre-set variable: `props`
The props variable is a way to access JMeter properties in a script. JMeter properties are global variables that can be shared across threads and thread groups. You can use props to get or set property values. For example:

- To get a property value: 
```java
String prop = props.get ("prop"); // get $ {prop} property value and store it to prop string
```
- To set a property value: 
```java
props.put ("PROP1","1234"); // set $ {PROP1} property value to 1234
```
You can also use the __P or __property function to reference properties in other elements of the test plan. For example:

- To get a property value: $ {__P (prop)}
- To set a property value: $ {__P (prop,1234)}

Some examples of using props variable are:
- To pass data between thread groups
- To configure test parameters from command line or external files
- To store global constants or counters
You can find more details and examples of using props variable in the [official documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Properties.html).

## Pre-set variable: `Sampler`:

The sampler variable is a way to access the current sampler in a BeanShell PreProcessor script. The current sampler is an object that represents the request that is going to be sent by JMeter. You can use sampler to get or set various attributes of the request. For example:

- To get the sampler name: 
```java
String samplerName = sampler.getName ();
```
- To get the sampler domain: 
```java
String domain = sampler.getDomain ();
```
- To get the sampler path: 
```java
String path = sampler.getPath ();
```
- To get the sampler method: 
```java
String method = sampler.getMethod ();
```
- To set the sampler name: 
```java
sampler.setName ("New Name");
```
- To set the sampler domain: 
```java
sampler.setDomain ("example.com");
```
- To set the sampler path: 
```java
sampler.setPath ("/test");
```
- To set the sampler method: 
```java
sampler.setMethod ("POST");
```
You can find more details and examples of using sampler variable in the [official documentation](https://jmeter.apache.org/api/org/apache/jmeter/samplers/Sampler.html)

## JMeter `SampleResult` variable:
The SampleResult variable is a way to access the previous sample result in a BeanShell PreProcessor script. The previous sample result is an object that represents the response that was received by JMeter from the previous sampler. You can use SampleResult to get various attributes of the response. For example:

- To get the response code: 
```java
String code = SampleResult.getResponseCode ();
```
- To get the response message: 
```java
String message = SampleResult.getResponseMessage ();
```
- To get the response data: 
```java
byte[] data = SampleResult.getResponseData ();
```
- To get the response headers: 
```java
String headers = SampleResult.getResponseHeaders ();
```
- To get the response time: 
```java
long time = SampleResult.getTime ();
```
- To get the response latency: 
```java
long latency = SampleResult.getLatency ();
```
You can find more details and examples of using SampleResult variable in the [official documentation](https://jmeter.apache.org/api/org/apache/jmeter/samplers/SampleResult.html).
