# Ultimate Thread Group

## How to install?
To install Ultimate Thread Group, you need to follow these steps:

1. Download the Ultimate Thread Group JMeter Plugin from https://jmeter-plugins.org/wiki/UltimateThreadGroup/ or https://www.perfmatrix.com/jmeter-ultimate-thread-group/
2. Unzip the folder and copy the files jmeter-plugins-cmn-jmeter-<version>.jar, jmeter-plugins-casutg-<version>.jar and jmeter-plugins-manager-<version>.jar to the lib and ext folders of Apache JMeter installation directory123.
3. Launch JMeter in GUI mode and right-click on the Test Plan node
4. Hover the mouse on Add > Threads (Users) and select jp@gc - Ultimate Thread Group
  
  
## What is the difference between JMeter Thread Group and Ultimate Thread Group?
The difference between JMeter Thread Group and Ultimate Thread Group is that:

JMeter Thread Group is the default and basic way to define a load pattern for your test. It allows you to specify the number of threads (users), ramp-up time (how long it takes to start all the threads), loop count (number of iterations) and scheduler (duration and start/end time of the test).

Ultimate Thread Group is a plugin that provides more flexibility and control over the load pattern. It allows you to specify an unlimited number of rows, each with its own start time, initial delay, startup time, hold load time, shutdown time and number of threads. You can also see a graph of the load profile as you configure it.
  
Some advantages of Ultimate Thread Group over JMeter Thread Group are:

- You can have different ramp-up and ramp-down times for different stages of the test
- You can have different load levels for different durations of the test
- You can have more than one load pattern in a single thread group
- You can easily create spike tests or step tests34
