## Launch JMeter
We can launch JMeter in 2 modes:

### Graphical mode:
Once you have downloaded and extracted the Jmeter files, you can launch Jmeter by GUI in two ways:
1. Double-click on the jmeter.bat (for Windows) or jmeter.sh (for Linux) file in the /bin directory of Jmeter
2. Open a command prompt or terminal window, navigate to the /bin directory of Jmeter, and type jmeter.bat (for Windows) or ./jmeter (for Linux) and hit enter

Either way, you should see the Jmeter console followed by the Jmeter GUI on your screen.

### Command line mode: 

Command line mode (also known as CLI mode or non-GUI mode) is useful for running Jmeter tests without launching the GUI, which saves memory and CPU resources. To start Jmeter in command line mode, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open a command prompt or terminal window on your system.

2. Navigate to the /bin directory of Jmeter where you have installed it.

3. Type the following command and hit enter: jmeter -n -t [name of JMX file that contains the test plan] -l [name of JTL file to log sample results] [-e -o [path to output folder]] 

For example, if your test plan file is called test.jmx and you want to save the results in a file called results.jtl and generate an HTML report in a folder called report, you can type: jmeter -n -t test.jmx -l results.jtl -e -o report

You should see some messages on the console indicating the progress and status of your test. You can also monitor the test using a backend listener or a remote client.

Once the test is finished, you can view the results in the JTL file or the HTML report. You can also use other tools to analyze the results.

For more details on how to use Jmeter in command line mode, please refer to the [official documentation](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/get-started.html) and this [source](https://www.numpyninja.com/post/run-jmeter-and-generate-html-dashboard-report-from-command-line-non-gui-mode)

### Pros and cons between launching jmeter in graphical mode and CLI mode?

> Graphical mode (also known as GUI mode) is useful for developing, debugging and recording test plans. You can use the graphical interface to add, remove and configure test elements, and to view the results in various listeners. However, graphical mode has some drawbacks:

>-  It consumes more memory and CPU resources than CLI mode, which can affect the test performance and reliability.

>- It does not support distributed testing, which is needed for generating high load.

>- It does not allow generating HTML reports at the end of the test1.

> CLI mode (also known as command line mode or non-GUI mode) is useful for running test plans without launching the GUI, which saves memory and CPU resources. You can use CLI mode to run tests locally or remotely, and to generate CSV, XML or HTML reports. However, CLI mode has some limitations:

>- It does not allow modifying the test plan during the test run.

>- It does not show the results in real-time, unless you use a backend listener or a remote client.

>- It requires some familiarity with command line syntax and options.

For more details on how to use Jmeter in graphical mode and CLI mode, please refer to the [official documentation](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/get-started.html).
