### resource:
- [dzone](https://dzone.com/articles/how-to-reuse-your-jmeter-code-with-jar-files-and-s)
- [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42706329/how-can-i-reuse-a-test-fragment-in-jmeter)
- [youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0m4h8IGuNs&ab_channel=QA-Automated)
- 
## How to reuse Jmeter scripts:

To reuse JMeter code, you can use different methods such as:

- Creating a JAR file with your custom code written in Groovy or other scripting languages and adding it to the lib or ext folders of JMeter installation. You can then call your code from a JSR223 Sampler or other components that support scripting. This way, you can avoid writing the same code in multiple tests and update it easily if needed.
- Using the Include Controller to include an external JMeter test plan file (.jmx) into your current test plan. You can use this to reuse common test scenarios or fragments that are stored in separate files. You can also pass parameters to the included test plan using user defined variables.
- Using the Module Controller to execute a test fragment from another part of your test plan. You can use this to reuse common test logic or actions that are defined as test fragments under a WorkBench node. You can also pass parameters to the test fragment using user defined variables.
- Using the Parameterized Controller to pass different values to a test fragment that is called multiple times. You can use this to reuse the same test logic or actions with different inputs or outputs. You can define the values as constants or generate them dynamically.


### By using Include Controller
To reuse JMeter script by using Include Controller, you can follow these steps:

1. Create a JMeter script that contains the test logic or actions that you want to reuse. Save it as a .jmx file in a location that is accessible by JMeter. For example, you can save it as Token.jmx in the bin folder of JMeter installation.
2. In your main JMeter script, add an Include Controller to the place where you want to call the reusable script. You can add it by right-clicking on a node and selecting Add > Logic Controller > Include Controller.
3. In the Include Controller settings, enter the path or filename of the reusable script. For example, you can enter Token.jmx if it is in the same folder as your main script. You can also use variables or properties to specify the path or filename dynamically.
4. Run your main JMeter script and verify that the Include Controller executes the reusable script as expected. You can use listeners or log files to check the results.

Sample tree:

```jmx
Test Plan
|--Thread Group
   |--Once Only Controller
      |--Include Controller (Filename: Token.jmx)
   |--Simple Controller
      |--HTTP Request (URL: https://127.0.01:4444?authtoken=${authToken})
      |--HTTP Request (URL: https://127.0.01:4444?authtoken=${authToken})
```

### By using Module Controller and Test Fragment

Here are some steps and a sample for reusing JMeter script by using Module Controller and Test Fragment:

1. Create a Test Fragment element under your Test Plan and give it a descriptive name (e.g. Login).
2. Add the logic you want to reuse under the Test Fragment element (e.g. a HTTP Request to send a login request and a JSON Extractor to extract the authtoken).
3. Disable the Test Fragment element by right-clicking on it and selecting Disable.
4. In your main script, add a Module Controller under a Thread Group or another logic controller.
5. In the Module Controller, select the Test Fragment element from the Module To Run dropdown menu (e.g. Login).
> - The Module Controller will execute the Test Fragment element as part of your main script.
> - You can access any variables generated by the Test Fragment element (e.g. authToken) in your main script by using $ {authToken} syntax.

Here is a sample of how your test plan might look like:
```jmx
Test Plan
|--Test Fragment (Login)
   |--HTTP Request (URL: https://example.com/login, Parameters: email, password)
   |--JSON Extractor (Variable Names: authToken)
|--Thread Group
   |--Module Controller (Module To Run: Login)
   |--HTTP Request (URL: https://example.com/profile?authtoken=${authToken})
```
### How do I pass variables between Test Fragments?
There are a few ways to pass variables between Test Fragments in JMeter. One way is to use JMeter Variables that are scoped to the Thread Group. For example, if you have a Test Fragment that generates a variable (e.g. authToken) and another Test Fragment that uses that variable, you can access it by using $ {authToken} syntax in both Test Fragments.

Another way is to use a Parameterized Controller that allows you to pass parameters to a Test Fragment. For example, if you have a Test Fragment that accepts a parameter (e.g. email) and another Test Fragment that provides that parameter, you can use a Parameterized Controller to link them. You need to add a Parameterized Controller under your Test Plan and select the Test Fragment from the Target Controller dropdown menu. Then you can add parameters and values in the table below. You can access the parameters in the Test Fragment by using ${__P(parameterName)} syntax.

## What is the difference between Include Controller and Module Controller?
The main difference between Include Controller and Module Controller is that Include Controller allows you to reuse an external JMeter script, while Module Controller allows you to reuse a part of your current test plan.

Include Controller is useful when you want to execute a separate JMeter script as part of your main script. For example, if you have a script that generates and extracts an authtoken, you can use Include Controller to call that script from your main script. You need to save the external script in the same folder as your main script or specify the relative path to it. You can access any variables generated by the external script in your main script by using $ {variableName} syntax.

Module Controller is useful when you want to execute a logic controller or a simple controller that is defined in your current test plan. For example, if you have a Transaction Controller that implements Login, and you want to use it in different Thread Groups, you can use Module Controller to call that Transaction Controller instead of copying and pasting it. You need to add a Test Fragment element in your test plan and put the logic controller or simple controller under it. Then you can select that controller from the Module To Run dropdown menu in the Module Controller.

## Best practices for using test fragments:
- Use test fragments to store common test logic or actions that can be reused by multiple thread groups or test plans. For example, you can use test fragments to store login, logout, registration, etc. scenarios that are shared by different workflows.
- Use Module Controller or Include Controller to reference test fragments from other parts of your test plan. Module Controller allows you to execute a test fragment from the same test plan, while Include Controller allows you to execute a test fragment from an external test plan file.
- Use Parameterized Controller or user defined variables to pass different values to a test fragment that is called multiple times. You can use this to reuse the same test logic or actions with different inputs or outputs. You can define the values as constants or generate them dynamically.
- Use Test Fragment only for reusable scripts and not for standalone execution. Test Fragment does not execute by itself unless it is referenced by another controller. If you want to execute a test fragment independently, you can use a Thread Group instead.
