# Thread Group in JMeter

## What is Thread group in JMeter?

A Thread Group is a basic element of a JMeter test plan that represents a group of virtual users that will execute a set of requests defined in the test plan. 
The Thread Group element controls the number of virtual users, the ramp-up time, and the number of iterations or loops for a test. 
Each thread in the thread group will independently execute all the elements under the thread group while running the test plan. 
Thread group also holds other test elements like controllers, samplers, config elements and listeners.

## What are the different types of Thread Groups in JMeter?

There are different types of Thread Groups in JMeter that can be used to simulate different load test scenarios. 
Some of the common types are:

- `Thread Group`: This is the most basic and classic thread group that has some standard settings, such as number of threads, ramp-up period, loop count and scheduler. 
It can be adapted to fit most load test scenarios.
- `Arrivals Thread Group`: This is an open-source custom plugin implemented by Blazemeter. 
It allows you to define a target arrival rate of requests per second and JMeter will try to generate the necessary number of threads to achieve that rate.
- `Concurrency Thread Group`: This is another open-source custom plugin implemented by Blazemeter. 
It allows you to define a target concurrency level of threads and JMeter will dynamically adjust the number of threads based on feedback from the server response time.
- `Stepping Thread Group`: This is a custom thread group that allows you to gradually increase and decrease the number of threads over time. 
You can define the initial delay, start threads count, time to hold load, stop threads count and shutdown time for each step.
- `Ultimate Thread Group`: This is a custom thread group that allows you to define more flexible load patterns with multiple stages. 
You can define the start time, start threads count, hold load time, shutdown time and change in threads count for each stage.

There are also other types of thread groups such as `Free Form Arrivals Thread Group`, `Synchronizing Timer Thread Group` and `Inter-Thread Communication Thread Group` that can be used for specific purposes. 
You can add these custom thread groups by `installing the JMeter Plugins Manager` and selecting the desired plugins from the available list.

## How about Open model Thread Group, setUp Thread Group, tearDown Thread Group?

Apart from the types of Thread Groups mentioned in the previous question, 
JMeter 5.5 also introduces three more types of Thread Groups:

- `Open Model Thread Group`: This is an ***experimental feature*** that allows you to ***define a target load rate of requests per second*** using a schedule expression. 
JMeter will try to generate the necessary number of threads to achieve that rate without explicitly mentioning the number of threads.
- `setUp Thread Group`: This is a special type of Thread Group that is used to run initial actions to prepare the testing environment before starting the main test. 
For example, you can use this thread group to create a list of registered users in the database, retrieve required data from a database, populate the database with test data or run pre-load test calculations2.
- `tearDown Thread Group`: This is a special type of Thread Group that is used to run post-test actions after all the other thread groups are done. 
For example, you can use this thread group to delete users from the database, clean up the test data or generate some reports.
You can add these types of Thread Groups by right-clicking on the Test Plan and selecting them from the Threads menu.

## So, can a testplan has more than one setUp or tearDown Thread Group?

Yes, a test plan can have more than one setUp or tearDown Thread Group. 
However, you should be careful when using multiple setUp or tearDown Thread Groups as they may interfere with each other or cause unexpected results. 
***For example***, if you have two setUp Thread Groups that create users in the same database, they may create duplicate users or overwrite each other’s data. 
Similarly, if you have two tearDown Thread Groups that delete users from the same database, they may delete users that are still needed by other thread groups or cause errors if they try to delete the same user twice. 
Therefore, it is recommended to use only one setUp and one tearDown Thread Group per test plan unless you have a specific reason to use more and you are sure that they will not conflict with each other.

## `Run follows` of a test plan` has setUp, tearDown Thread Group and multiples common Thread Groups?

The flow of a test plan run with setUp and tearDown Thread Groups with multiple Thread Groups is as follows:

- `First`, all the `setUp Thread Groups are executed` in the order they appear in the test plan. Each setUp Thread Group will run once with the number of threads and loop count specified in its configuration. The setUp Thread Groups are used to perform pre-test actions such as creating users, retrieving data or populating the database.
- `Next`, all the `regular Thread Groups are executed` either `in parallel or in sequence` depending on the `Run Thread Groups consecutively option` in the test plan. 
Each regular Thread Group will run with the number of threads, ramp-up period, loop count and scheduler specified in its configuration. 
The regular Thread Groups are used to perform the main load test actions such as sending requests, simulating user behavior or generating load.
- `Finally`, all the tearDown Thread Groups are executed in the order they appear in the test plan. 
Each tearDown Thread Group will run once with the number of threads and loop count specified in its configuration. 
The tearDown Thread Groups are used to perform post-test actions such as deleting users, cleaning up data or generating reports.
The test plan run will end when all the setUp, regular and tearDown Thread Groups have finished their execution.

## Multiple common Thread Group is running parallel by default?

Yes, multiple common Thread Groups are running in parallel by default. 
This means that all the threads from different Thread Groups will start and end at the same time, unless you specify a different scheduler for each Thread Group. 
Running multiple Thread Groups in parallel can be useful when you want ***to simulate a mixed load on the system under test*** with ***different scenarios*** or ***user types***. 
However, you should also consider the resource consumption and the network bandwidth when running multiple Thread Groups in parallel, as they may affect the performance of your test or the system under test.

## So, How to run multiple Thread Groups in consequence?

To run multiple Thread Groups in sequence, you need to select the Run Thread Groups consecutively option in the test plan. 
This option is located at the bottom of the test plan configuration panel. 
When this option is selected, JMeter will execute each Thread Group one after the other in the order they appear in the test plan. 
Running multiple Thread Groups in sequence can be useful when you want to execute application scenarios one after the other, especially when there is a dependency between various scenarios. 
For example, you may want to run a login scenario before running a purchase scenario. 
However, you should also consider the total duration and the throughput of your test when running multiple Thread Groups in sequence, as they may affect the accuracy and the reliability of your test results.

# Thread Group creation

## How to create common Thread Group?

To create a common Thread Group, you need to follow these steps:

1. Right-click on the test plan and select Add > Threads > Thread Group from the context menu. 
This will add a new Thread Group element under the test plan.
2. Give a name to the Thread Group that describes the scenario or the user type that it represents. 
For example, you can name it as “Login Users” or “Browse Products”.
3. Configure the Thread Group properties according to your test requirements. 
The common properties are:
- Number of Threads: This is the number of virtual users that will execute the test scenario. 
You can enter any positive integer value here. For example, you can enter 10 to simulate 10 users.
- Ramp-Up Period: This is the time in seconds that JMeter will take to start all the threads. 
You can enter any positive integer value here. For example, you can enter 20 to make JMeter start one thread every 2 seconds (20/10).
- Loop Count: This is the number of times that each thread will execute the test scenario. 
You can enter any positive integer value here or select Forever to make the threads run indefinitely until you stop the test. 
For example, you can enter 5 to make each thread run the scenario 5 times.
- Scheduler: This is an optional feature that allows you to set a start and end time for the test or a duration for each thread. 
You can check the Scheduler checkbox to enable this feature and then enter the values for Start Time, End Time or Duration in the corresponding fields. 
For example, you can enter 10:00:00 in Start Time and 11:00:00 in End Time to make the test run from 10 AM to 11 AM.

## What does the check box `same user each iteration` do?

The checkbox same user on each iteration is an option that affects how JMeter `handles the user-defined variables` in the Thread Group. 
If this option is checked, JMeter will use the same values for the variables for each iteration of the thread. 
If this option is unchecked, JMeter will update the values for the variables for each iteration of the thread. 
For example, if you have a variable called username that is defined in the Thread Group and has a value of user, and you have a loop count of 2, then:

If same user on each iteration is checked, JMeter will use user as the value for username for both iterations of the thread.
If same user on each iteration is unchecked, JMeter will use user as the value for username for the first iteration of the thread and user as the value for username for the second iteration of the thread.

This option is useful when you want to simulate different user behaviors or data sets for each iteration of the thread. 
However, you should also make sure that you have enough values for the variables to avoid errors or unexpected results. 
For example, if you have a loop count of 3 and only two values for username, then JMeter will use user1 and user for the first two iterations and then repeat user1 for the third iteration, which may not be what you want.

## How do I define user-defined variables in the Thread Group?
To define user-defined variables in the Thread Group, you need to follow these steps:

1. Right-click on the Thread Group and select Add > Config Element > User Defined Variables from the context menu. 
This will add a new User Defined Variables element under the Thread Group.
2. Give a name to the User Defined Variables element that describes the purpose or the scope of the variables. 
For example, you can name it as “User Credentials” or “Test Data”.
3. In the User Defined Variables table, enter the names and values for the variables that you want to define. 
You can also use functions or expressions for the values if needed. 
For example, you can enter username and user1 in the Name and Value columns respectively for the first variable, and password and pass1 in the Name and Value columns respectively for the second variable.
4. Save your test plan and use the variables in other test elements by enclosing them in ${} syntax. For example, you can use ${username} and ${password} in an HTTP Request sampler to send them as parameters to a login page.

You can also define user-defined variables at the test plan level by adding a User Defined Variables element under the test plan. 
These variables will be available to all the Thread Groups in the test plan. 
However, if you define a variable with the same name at both the test plan level and the Thread Group level, then the value defined at the Thread Group level will take precedence over the value defined at the test plan level.

## how do we reference/ use these user defined variables?

To reference or use the user-defined variables, you need to enclose them in ${} syntax and place them where you want to use them in other test elements. 
For example, if you have defined a variable called username with a value of user1 in the User Defined Variables element, then you can use ${username} in an HTTP Request sampler to send it as a parameter to a web page. JMeter will replace ${username} with user1 at runtime and send the request with the actual value. You can also use the user-defined variables in other places such as assertions, listeners, timers or controllers as long as they are within the same Thread Group or test plan scope

## How does option `Delay Thread post creation software until needed` do?

The option Delay Thread creation until needed is an option that affects how JMeter creates and starts the threads in the Thread Group. If this option is checked, JMeter will delay the creation of the thread data until the thread is about to start. 
This means that the ramp-up delay and startup delay are performed before the thread data is created. 
If this option is unchecked, JMeter will create the thread data for all the threads before starting the actual execution at the beginning of the test. 
This means that the ramp-up delay and startup delay are performed after the thread data is created.

This option is useful when you want to reduce the memory consumption and improve the performance of JMeter by creating the thread data only when needed. 
However, you should also make sure that you have enough time to create the thread data before the thread starts, otherwise you may encounter errors or delays. 
For example, if you have a large number of threads and a short ramp-up period, then you may want to uncheck this option to avoid creating the thread data too late. 
On the other hand, if you have a small number of threads and a long ramp-up period, then you may want to check this option to avoid creating the thread data too early.

## What does option `Specify Thread lifetime` do?

The option Specify Thread lifetime is an option that allows you to define the duration and startup delay for each thread in the Thread Group. 
If this option is checked, you can enter the values for Duration and Startup Delay in the corresponding fields. 
The Duration is the time in seconds that each thread will run for. 
The Startup Delay is the time in seconds that each thread will wait before starting to run. 
For example, if you enter 300 in Duration and 10 in Startup Delay, then each thread will run for 5 minutes and start 10 seconds after the previous thread.

This option is useful when you want to control the duration and startup delay of each thread independently of the loop count and scheduler. 
However, you should also make sure that the values for duration and startup delay are consistent with the values for loop count and scheduler, otherwise you may encounter errors or unexpected results. 
For example, if you enter a duration that is longer than the end time specified by the scheduler, then the threads will stop at the end time regardless of the duration. 
On the other hand, if you enter a duration that is shorter than the loop count multiplied by the ramp-up period, then some threads may not run at all or run only partially.

## best practices for creating Thread Group?

Some of the best practices for creating Thread Groups are:

- `Choose the appropriate type of Thread Group` for your test scenario. For example, use a regular Thread Group for a simple or standard load test, use an Arrivals Thread Group for a target rate load test, use a Stepping Thread Group for a step-up load test, etc.
- `Name your Thread Groups clearly and descriptively` to indicate the scenario or user type that they represent. For example, use names like “Login Users”, “Browse Products”, “Checkout Users”, etc.
- `Configure your Thread Groups properties carefully and realistically` to match your test requirements and expectations. For example, use a realistic number of threads, ramp-up period, loop count and scheduler that reflect the actual user behavior and load pattern that you want to simulate.
- `Use different data sources` or functions for creating thread data and parameterizing your Thread Groups. 
For example, use CSV Data Set Config, Random Variable, __RandomString, __UUID, etc. to generate or read different values for your variables and avoid hard-coding them in your test elements.
- `Use user-defined variables` to define and reference common or reusable values in your Thread Groups. 
For example, use user-defined variables to store the base URL, the credentials, the test data, etc. and use them in other test elements by enclosing them in ${} syntax.
- `Use setUp and tearDown` Thread Groups to perform pre-test and post-test actions respectively. 
For example, use setUp Thread Group to create users, retrieve data or populate the database before the main test and use tearDown Thread Group to delete users, clean up data or generate reports after the main test.
- `Use Run Thread Groups consecutively` option in the test plan to run multiple Thread Groups in sequence or in parallel depending on your test scenario. 
For example, use this option to run multiple Thread Groups in sequence when there is a dependency between various scenarios or use this option to run multiple Thread Groups in parallel when there is no dependency between various scenarios.
- `Use Delay Thread creation` until needed option in the Thread Group to reduce the memory consumption and improve the performance of JMeter by creating the thread data only when needed. 
For example, use this option when you have a small number of threads and a long ramp-up period to avoid creating the thread data too early.
- `Use Specify Thread lifetime option` in the Thread Group to define the duration and startup delay for each thread independently of the loop count and scheduler. 
For example, use this option when you want to control the duration and startup delay of each thread without affecting the loop count and scheduler.
- `Add listeners or timers` to your Thread Groups as needed to view the results, add delays or control the throughput of your test. 
For example, add View Results Tree listener to view the results in a tree format, add Constant Timer timer to add a fixed delay between requests or add Constant Throughput Timer timer to control the throughput of your test.


